# Response to resolution regarding Zoning Permit 2024-006A that was illegally signed by the Town Manager

Hello Selectboard Members,

While I would like to just resign and disappear into the sunset, I feel compelled to speak about Pages 9 & 10 of the Tuesday night's Selectboard meeting packet (4). The resolution included on those pages makes false claims about my actions and is intended, I believe, to cover up fraud perpetrated by the Town Manager. The Town Manager illegally and knowingly signed an $800,000 permit (#2024-006a) (1) regarding a new house on Randolph Road while I was on vacation in January. The intent of the Town Manager illegally signing this permit was for a bank to release what likely amounts to tens of thousands of dollars (or more) from a construction loan to the home builder. The release of said funds via a knowingly false signature may constitute bank fraud. I became aware of this permit the day before I resigned as Zoning Administrator (ZA), and this fraudulent activity was part of my decision to leave my job. Realizing the Town Manager's desire for control was now extending to illegally signing zoning permits without any consultation of the actual ZA, I no longer wanted to remain part of our Town government.

Contrary to what is stated in the resolution the Selectboard is being asked to sign on Tuesday night, I repeatedly, over the course of many months, asked the Town Manager and Human Resources Director to start the appointment process so Stowe's long-time Acting ZA Charlie Burnham could become the Acting ZA on an as needed basis when I was overseas. I did not ask the Town Manager to become the acting ZA, as I would in no way trust him to perform these duties. The State Statute (24 V.S.A. ยง 4448 b) listing the appointment process for an Acting ZA is attached to this email (3) (note that this process is still likely not being followed correctly on Tuesday night without the required Planning Commission recommendation of said appointment). State Law is meant to establish and protect process, and for the new Town Manager to knowingly ignore legally required process by providing a false permit signature less than a year into his job leading Morristown should be incredibly concerning (and likely a breach of his employment contract). Furthermore, his use of the Town Attorney (and Town tax dollars) to draft the proposed resolution to cover up this illegal activity is highly discouraging. It is even more disconcerting to see the various excuses being given by both the Town Manager and his Executive Assistant to try to justify the illegal permit signature when questioned about it by the public. The claim made in the attached email from the Town's Executive Assistant to Tom Cloutier (2) is absurd and specious. I had no agency or authority to convey permit approval authority to the Town Manager. Appointment authority is of course reserved for the Selectboard. I know that, as does your Town Manager. Any claims to the contrary are a lie.

As we do not yet know the fallout of the bank releasing such a large amount of money to a builder based on a zoning permit that was falsely and knowingly signed illegally, I would strongly caution the Selectboard to not back-date the appointment of the Town Manager as Acting ZA to September 19th as requested at the top of the resolution's second page. I do not believe the Selectboard can legally ratify the action of someone after-the-fact who had no agency or authority to act on this permit in the first place. To put the back-dating request in perspective for the Selectboard, any ZA would immediately refuse a request to illegally backdate a zoning permit approval, so the Town Manager asking the Selectboard to back-date his appointment as Acting ZA by 5 months is incredibly out of the ordinary and should raise serious alarms (especially since the permit in question was granted in January and not in September). The only benefit I can perceive of this specific back-dating request would be to absolve or shield the Town Manager of the repercussions of this illegal permit signing (or other still unknown activities), while potentially spreading liability instead to the Town and its taxpayers.

If the Selectboard, or Members thereof, would like to speak with me further about this issue, I will make myself available. Unfortunately, I cannot attend your meeting on Tuesday night as I have to be at work at 5:00 P.M. that night. Please note that it pains me to write an email such as this as I want what is best for our Town, but the illegal actions of the Town Manager, and the hole he and his Executive Assistant are digging deeper each day trying to cover it up, brings tremendous liability onto the Town and further damages its reputation. 

Thank you,
Todd Thomas

## Citations

1. [Permit #2024-006a](./docs/Zoning%20Permit%20illegally%20signed%20by%20the%20Town%20Manager.pdf) - In which the town manager illegally signed a Permit without proper authorization by the Morrisville Selectboard.
2. [False justification for the offense](./docs/false-rationale.png) - The screenshot is taken from an email thead between a concerned citizen, Tom Cloutier, during a Public Records Request for the Permit. The response is from the Assistant Town Administrator citing alleged verbal approval from the Town Planner, which never actually occurred nor would it properly grant the necessary authority.
3. [Vermont State Law - 24 V.S.A. ยง 4448 b](./docs/24V.S.A.ss4448.png) - **24 V.S.A. ยง 4448, Section B** states that only by a process of nomination by the Zoning Authority and subsequent approval by the Selectboard may an acting administrative officer be established - neither of which occurred.
4. [Upcoming Select Board Meeting Agenda 2/18/2025](./docs/SB%20Packet%202-18-25.pdf) - Referring to Pages 9 and 10, in the upcoming meeting, the Selectboard is now actively attempting to grant retroactive approval as Acting Zoning Administrator to cover for the Town Administrator acting illegally.
